statement_id,author,statement_text
1,PhysicistLurker,"I would like to know whether *THE AI SCIENTIST* can research more general scientific areas, such as physics, chemistry, or biology. For me, the experiments in this paper are quite limited to the machine-learning field."
2,Skeptic123,"According to your paper, the cost to generate each paper is around 15 dollars, and that appears to come mostly from API calls. But I don't see any mention of the significant investment (CAPEX) needed for your high-end hardware (like the 8 × NVIDIA H100 node) that seems necessary when running your system at full tilt. What's the price of your hardware, and is it included in the cost calculation of 15 dollars per paper? If you're renting the hardware instead of buying it, what's the price to rent that hardware, and is that rental cost included in your $15 figure?"
3,SafetyFirst,"The paper mentions 'safety concerns around code execution' but doesn't adequately address the risks of an AI system that can autonomously write and execute code. What happens when the AI generates code that accesses external resources, makes API calls to unintended services, or creates infinite loops that consume resources? This needs sandboxing at a minimum."
4,GradStudent,"This is genuinely exciting! The fact that it can generate medium-quality papers for $15 could democratize research for students and institutions without massive budgets. Even if the papers need human refinement, having an AI do the initial exploration could accelerate my PhD work significantly."
5,OpenSciFan,"I love that this framework makes the entire research process transparent and reproducible. Every decision, every experiment, every iteration is logged. This could set a new standard for reproducibility in ML research if widely adopted."
6,ProfTech,"The balanced accuracy of 0.65 for the automated reviewer is concerning. This means the system is essentially a coin flip with a slight edge. We can't have AI reviewing AI-generated papers when the review quality is this poor. The high false positive rate (0.31) means it's accepting bad papers too often."
7,IndustryDev,"From a practical standpoint, I'm interested in using this for rapid prototyping and ablation studies. Even if the papers are 'medium quality,' having an AI generate baseline experiments while I focus on the novel parts could save weeks of work."
8,ResearcherA,"The paper admits the AI hallucinates factual details and has a positive bias in interpreting results. This is deeply problematic. Science requires rigor and honesty about negative results. An AI that spins failures as successes undermines the entire scientific method."
9,Journalist,"The implications of AI doing science autonomously are fascinating, but I worry about the 'paper mill' scenario. If we can generate hundreds of papers per week at $15 each, we could flood conferences and journals with mediocre work, making it even harder to find genuine breakthroughs."
10,StartupFounder,"The ROI here is incredible. $15 per paper with Claude Sonnet means I could have my AI team explore hundreds of architectural variations in a week. Sure, they're medium quality, but that's perfect for early-stage R&D. Human experts can refine the promising ones."
11,Skeptic123,"Medium-quality papers are just fancy words for 'not good enough to publish.' Why are we celebrating a system that generates mediocre work? This feels like automating something that shouldn't be automated - science requires creativity and deep understanding, not bulk production."
12,SafetyFirst,"Self-improving AI systems that accelerate their own development are mentioned as a future direction. Has anyone considered the alignment implications? We need to solve AI safety BEFORE we have AI systems autonomously doing AI research."
13,OpenSciFan,"The Semantic Scholar API integration for novelty checking is clever, but it's only as good as what's already published. What about the growing body of work on arXiv that hasn't been peer-reviewed yet? The system might 'discover' things that are already on arXiv preprints."
14,GradStudent,"People are too negative about 'medium quality.' Most conference papers are medium quality! If this can match the median paper at a major ML conference, that's actually impressive. It's not trying to replace Turing Award winners, just do solid empirical work."
15,PhysicistLurker,"As someone from physics, I'm curious: can this handle domains where experiments take months or years to run? In ML you can iterate quickly, but in materials science or particle physics, you can't just run 5 rounds of experiments in an afternoon."
16,IndustryDev,"The iterative refinement with error handling (trying up to 4 times to fix code) is smart engineering. This is exactly how I'd build such a system. The real innovation here is the robustness, not just hooking up an LLM to a Python interpreter."
17,ProfTech,"My main concern: who reviews all these papers? If the system generates hundreds of papers per week, we'd need thousands of human reviewers. And if we use automated reviewers (which aren't even that good), we're creating a closed loop where AI reviews AI with no human verification."
18,Journalist,"From a science communication perspective, this raises questions about authorship and credit. If an AI generates a paper, who gets credit? The person who ran the system? The team that built the framework? How do we cite these papers?"
19,StartupFounder,"Everyone's debating the philosophical implications while I'm thinking about competitive advantage. If this works, companies that adopt it early will outpace those that don't. In 5 years, NOT using AI for research might be like not using computers today."
20,ResearcherA,"The case study on 'Adaptive Dual-Scale Denoising' is interesting, but without seeing the actual generated paper, I can't evaluate if it's truly novel or just a recombination of existing techniques. The authors should have included full example papers in the appendix."